Feature/guacamole (#35)
enclave-networks/docs: docs/kb/guacamole.md

****Introduction****

This is astep-by-step guide to installing and using Guacamole with Enclave on Linux. For this purpose, we're going to use Docker, which you can read more about at https://www.docker.com/. Once we're done, the resulting Guacamole server will only be visible to those systems which have an Enclave policy connecting them to the server.

If you'd to dive more deeply into the installation process, please refer to https://guacamole.apache.org/doc/gug/guacamole-docker.html.

****Installation****

> 1. To begin with, install Docker. Installation instructions per Linux distro can be found here: https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/#server.

Reviewer: `[found here](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/#server)`

> 2. Open the terminal and navigate to a directory of your choice (e.g. run `cd home/ec2-user`). Enter `mkdir guacamoleCompose` to create a folder called `guacamoleCompose`.

Reviewer: we should probably also add `cd guacamoleCompose` as the other steps assume we're in that folder

> 3. Run `nano docker-compose.yml` to create and open an empty file called `docker-compose.yml` in the nano text editor. Copy and paste into it the text below. Modify both `POSTGRES_PASSWORD` fields and enter an enrolment key into the `ENCLAVE_ENROLMENT_KEY` field. Whatever password you choose, its important that both fields match. If you're setting the Guacamole service up on an automatically provisioned resource, such as an AWS instance, you may prefer to use an ephemeral enrolment key. By adding a tag to the key, you can automatically assign the Guacamole server a DNS name on startup. Once you're done, save and exit by typing `ctrl-x` followed by `y`.

Reviewer: Since we're using docker we should point them to an `ephemeral` key regardless. As that's what they're designed for.

Author: Do docker containers change their IP address? Mine seems to stay the same when I reboot the AWS instance

Author: My gut feeling is that if I used ~ I'd have to explain what it means, which feels like a detail-too-far. I really just want them to use the `cd` command to change directory to one they're happy with, so I've updated the line to reflect that.

Reviewer: docker containers can be destryoed and created fairly easily. for example if you were to update the enclave image the old container would be removed. so allowing for it to be ephemeral would make the most sense. Also from the point of view of spinning up and spinning down a container.

          POSTGRES_DB: guacamole_db
          POSTGRES_PASSWORD: [password]
          POSTGRES_USER: guacamole_user
        image: postgres:13.4-buster
        restart: always
        volumes:
        - ./init:/docker-entrypoint-initdb.d:z
        - ./data:/var/lib/postgresql/data:Z
      guacamole:
        container_name: guacamole
        depends_on:
        - guacd
        - postgres
        environment:
          GUACD_HOSTNAME: guacd
          POSTGRES_DATABASE: guacamole_db
          POSTGRES_HOSTNAME: postgres
          POSTGRES_PASSWORD: [password]
          POSTGRES_USER: guacamole_user
        image: guacamole/guacamole
        network_mode: service:enclave-fabric
        restart: always
      enclave-fabric:
        container_name: fabric
        image: enclavenetworks/enclave:latest
        restart: always
        cap_add:
          - NET_ADMIN
        devices:
          - /dev/net/tun
        environment:
          ENCLAVE_ENROLMENT_KEY: [enrolment_key]
        volumes:
          - enclave-config:/etc/enclave/profiles
          - enclave-logs:/var/log/enclave
    volumes:
      enclave-config:
      enclave-logs:
    ```

> 4. As above, create a file called `prepare.sh` and copy into it the text below. This file will initialise the Postgres database for us. 

Reviewer: This may be something that comes up from actual use but may be worth saying create with `nano` but i'm easy either way

****Introduction****

This is astep-by-step guide to installing and using Guacamole with Enclave on Linux. For this purpose, we're going to use Docker, which you can read more about at https://www.docker.com/. Once we're done, the resulting Guacamole server will only be visible to those systems which have an Enclave policy connecting them to the server.

If you'd to dive more deeply into the installation process, please refer to https://guacamole.apache.org/doc/gug/guacamole-docker.html.

****Installation****

> 1. To begin with, install Docker. Installation instructions per Linux distro can be found here: [https://docs.docker.com/desktop/install/ubuntu/](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/install/ubuntu/).

Reviewer: May want to link to here instead https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/#server

> 2. Open the terminal and navigate to a directory of your choice (e.g. `cd home/ec2-user`). Enter `mkdir guacamoleCompose` to create a folder called `guacamoleCompose`.

Reviewer: `cd home/ec2-user` will only work if you're in the linux root directory. If you want to put them in the users home folder. use `cd ~` instead

Author: It's only an example, really - I'm not suggesting they should put it there

Reviewer: that's fine but let's make the tutorial as clear as possible using `cd ~` will always go to the current users home folder as it's an alias

> 2. Open the terminal and navigate to a directory of your choice (e.g. `cd home/ec2-user`). Enter `mkdir guacamoleCompose` to create a folder called `guacamoleCompose`.

Reviewer: possibly worth re writing the second part of this line, something along the lines of create a guacamole folder by running `mkidr guacamoleCompose`  etc

> 3. Copy and paste the following text into a file titled `docker-compose.yml`. Modify both `POSTGRES_PASSWORD` fields using a text editor of your choice and enter an enrolment key into the `ENCLAVE_ENROLMENT_KEY` field. Whatever password you choose, its important that both fields match. If you're setting the Guacamole service up on an automatically provisioned resource, such as an AWS instance, you may prefer to use an ephemeral enrolment key. By adding a tag to the key, you can automatically assign the Guacamole server a DNS name on startup.

Reviewer: file called rather than titled.

We should also make mention to `nano` a super easy text editor. 

We should encourage ephemeral keys regardless as these docker containers will be created and deleted fairly frequently for things like updates etc

Author: I wanted to avoid using "called" too often - it starts to become quite repetitive to read otherwise. Agreed "titled" is a bit awkward - how about "named"?

          POSTGRES_DB: guacamole_db
          POSTGRES_PASSWORD: [password]
          POSTGRES_USER: guacamole_user
        image: postgres:13.4-buster
        restart: always
        volumes:
        - ./init:/docker-entrypoint-initdb.d:z
        - ./data:/var/lib/postgresql/data:Z
      guacamole:
        container_name: guacamole
        depends_on:
        - guacd
        - postgres
        environment:
          GUACD_HOSTNAME: guacd
          POSTGRES_DATABASE: guacamole_db
          POSTGRES_HOSTNAME: postgres
          POSTGRES_PASSWORD: [password]
          POSTGRES_USER: guacamole_user
        image: guacamole/guacamole
        network_mode: service:enclave-fabric
        restart: always
      enclave-fabric:
        container_name: fabric
        image: enclavenetworks/enclave:latest
        restart: always
        cap_add:
          - NET_ADMIN
        devices:
          - /dev/net/tun
        environment:
          ENCLAVE_ENROLMENT_KEY: [enrolment_key]
        volumes:
          - enclave-config:/etc/enclave/profiles
          - enclave-logs:/var/log/enclave
    volumes:
      enclave-config:
      enclave-logs:
    ```

> 4. Copy `docker-compose.yml` into the `guacamoleCompose` folder. If your Linux distro was installed without a GUI, it may be easier to download and edit the file on another machine. Tools like WinSCP can be used to transfer files between computers.

Reviewer: why aren't we creating the file in `guacamoleCompose`?

> 4. Copy `docker-compose.yml` into the `guacamoleCompose` folder. If your Linux distro was installed without a GUI, it may be easier to download and edit the file on another machine. Tools like WinSCP can be used to transfer files between computers.

Reviewer: Most people will be familiar with the linux CLI. we should help them with it rather than encourage the use of a GUI

Author: In my case, AWS butchered the formatting when I tried to copy the text directly into the file using nano (deleted all line endings and indentation). I ended up creating it on my local machine and copying it over. Is there a better way?

Author: Ended up looking like this:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/112474401/214292283-23f42b51-4142-4290-9a24-dfe78a846d35.png)

5. Copy the text below into a file named `prepare.sh`. This file will initialise the Postgres database for us. As above, copy the file `prepare.sh` into`guacamoleCompose`.

>     ```yaml

Reviewer: this is bash not yaml

> 5. Copy the text below into a file titled `prepare.sh`. This file will initialise the Postgres database for us. As above, copy the file `prepare.sh` into`guacamoleCompose`.

Reviewer: file called. and again we can create the file in guacamole compose. by ensuring we're in the folder with `cd guacamoleCompose` then running `nano prepare.sh`

    #!/bin/sh
    #
    # check if docker is running
    if ! (docker ps >/dev/null 2>&1)
    then
      echo "docker daemon not running, will exit here!"
      exit
    fi
    echo "Preparing folder init and creating ./init/initdb.sql"
    mkdir ./init >/dev/null 2>&1
    chmod -R +x ./init
    docker run --rm guacamole/guacamole /opt/guacamole/bin/initdb.sh --postgres > ./init/initdb.sql
    echo "done"
    ```

6. In the terminal, enter the command `chmod +x prepare.sh` to allow `prepare.sh` to be executed as a program. Run it using the command `sudo ./prepare.sh`.

> 7. Enter `sudo docker compose up -d` to build and run the docker containers for the service. Enclave and Guacamole should now be running.

Reviewer: rather than enter, Run makes more sense here.

Author: Sprinkled in a couple anyway to break it up a bit

Reviewer: i'm happy either way but for me i'd be more inclined to say "Run" as we're running that command rather than just entering it.

8. Navigate to `portal.enclave.io` in your browser and identify the Guacamole server; it should have enrolled using `ENCLAVE_ENROLMENT_KEY`. Make sure the system is approved and connected to your local machine using a standard Enclave policy.

****Usage****

1. Find the Guacamole server in the Systems list. Click on it, and in the pop-out pane note down the virtual network address.

> 2. In your web browser, navigate to `[YourVirtualNetworkAddress]:8080/guacamole`. You should be redirected to the Guacamole login page. If you've registered a DNS name for the server, you can also use `[YourDNSName]:8080/guacamole`.

Reviewer: give an example of the enclave `[systemid].id.enclave` dns name as these are auto assigned!

Reviewer: we should link to the DNS docs instead

Author: Added it in the note section under step 3

****Introduction****

> This is astep-by-step guide to installing and using Guacamole with Enclave on Linux. For this purpose, we're going to use Docker, which you can read more about at https://www.docker.com/. Once we're done, the resulting Guacamole server will only be visible to those systems which have an Enclave policy connecting them to the server.

Reviewer 2: "This is a step-by-step guide"

If you'd like to dive more deeply into the installation process, please refer to https://guacamole.apache.org/doc/gug/guacamole-docker.html.

****Installation****

1. To begin with, install Docker. Installation instructions per Linux distro can be found [here](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/#server).

2. Open the terminal and navigate to a directory of your choice using the `cd` command. Enter `mkdir guacamoleCompose` to create a folder called `guacamoleCompose` and run `cd guacamoleCompose` to make it the current working directory.

> 3. Run `nano docker-compose.yml` to create and open an empty file called `docker-compose.yml` in the nano text editor. Copy and paste into it the text below. Modify both `POSTGRES_PASSWORD` fields and enter an enrolment key into the `ENCLAVE_ENROLMENT_KEY` field. Whatever password you choose, its important that both fields match. Once you're done, save and exit by typing `ctrl-x` followed by `y`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Run `nano docker-compose.yml` to create and open an empty file called `docker-compose.yml` in the nano text editor. Copy and paste into it the yaml file below. Modify both `POSTGRES_PASSWORD` fields and enter an enrolment key into the `ENCLAVE_ENROLMENT_KEY` field. Whatever password you choose, its important that both fields match. Once you're done, save and exit by typing `ctrl-x` followed by `y`.
```

> > ****Note****  You may prefer to use an ephemeral enrolment key. Systems enrolled using an ephemeral enrolment key are automatically removed from your Enclave organisation when they disconnect. By adding a tag to the key, you can also automatically assign the Guacamole server the same DNS name on startup. You can read more about DNS [here](https://docs.enclave.io/management/dns/).

Reviewer 2: Switch to a 'tip' admonition; also, use relative path references when linking.

```suggestion
!!! tip  

    You may prefer to use an ephemeral enrolment key. Systems enrolled using an ephemeral enrolment key are automatically removed from your Enclave organisation when they disconnect. By adding a tag to the key, you can also automatically assign the Guacamole server the same DNS name on startup. You can read more about DNS [here](../management/dns.md).
```

    image: enclavenetworks/enclave:latest
    restart: always
    cap_add:
      - NET_ADMIN
    devices:
      - /dev/net/tun
    environment:
      ENCLAVE_ENROLMENT_KEY: [enrolment_key]
    volumes:
      - enclave-config:/etc/enclave/profiles
      - enclave-logs:/var/log/enclave
volumes:
  enclave-config:
  enclave-logs:
```

4. As above, create a file called `prepare.sh` and copy into it the text below. This file will initialise the Postgres database for us. 

    ```bash
    #!/bin/sh
    #
    # check if docker is running
    if ! (docker ps >/dev/null 2>&1)
    then
      echo "docker daemon not running, will exit here!"
      exit
    fi
    echo "Preparing folder init and creating ./init/initdb.sql"
    mkdir ./init >/dev/null 2>&1
    chmod -R +x ./init
    docker run --rm guacamole/guacamole /opt/guacamole/bin/initdb.sh --postgres > ./init/initdb.sql
    echo "done"
    ```

5. In the terminal, enter the command `chmod +x prepare.sh` to allow `prepare.sh` to be executed as a program. Run it using the command `sudo ./prepare.sh`.

6. Enter `sudo docker compose up -d` to build and run the docker containers for the service. Enclave and Guacamole should now be running.

> 7. Navigate to `portal.enclave.io` in your browser and identify the Guacamole server; it should have enrolled using `ENCLAVE_ENROLMENT_KEY`. Make sure the system is approved and connected to your local machine using a standard Enclave policy.

Reviewer 2: Tell them what policy to create, and what port numbers they need to allow in their ACL.

Author: I've changed "standard Enclave policy" to "Direct Access Policy".

What needs to happen to the ports?

Reviewer 2: They should specify ACLs in the policy to only allow access to the guacamole port. https://docs.enclave.io/management/policy/#access-control-rules

Author: 👍

****Usage****

1. Find the Guacamole server in the Systems list. Click on it, and in the pop-out pane note down the virtual network address.

> 2. In your web browser, navigate to `[YourVirtualNetworkAddress]:8080/guacamole`. You should be redirected to the Guacamole login page. If you've registered a DNS name for the server, you can also use `[YourDNSName]:8080/guacamole`.

Reviewer 2: Can we add a setting to the YAML so guacamole uses port 80 instead of 8080?  Not a huge deal if not, but would make for a better URL at the end.

Reviewer: doesn't seem to be an option with the container, you can change the port exposed but that won't take affect under enclave

Reviewer 2: Fair enough.

6. Enter `sudo docker compose up -d` to build and run the docker containers for the service. Enclave and Guacamole should now be running.

> 7. Navigate to `portal.enclave.io` in your browser and identify the Guacamole server; it should have enrolled using `ENCLAVE_ENROLMENT_KEY`. Make sure the system is approved and connected to your local machine using a Direct Access policy. Modify the [ACLs](../management/access-control-rules.md) of the policy to restrict inbound traffic to TCP using port 8080 (the port you'll use to connect to Guacamole).

Reviewer 2: Is that the correct link?

Author: Fixed
